Hello and welcome back to the course
on Deep Learning.
In today's tutorial we're going to have a look at
a live example of a self-organizing map.
It's going to be a very simple example,
but at the same time it will help
drive the concepts home.
The concepts that we talked about previously in this course.
So, we're going to be using a executable file,
provided by AI junkie.
So ai-junkie.com is the blog that we mentioned
in the previous tutorials in this section,
where you can get a brief introduction into
self-organizing maps and you can understand
the mathematics behind them, and as well
get some programming examples.
If you'd like to find this blog, you need to
go to A-I hyphen junkie.com slash A-N-N slash som
slash some one dot H-T-M-L.
And here, if you scroll down,
you will be able to download a source code
for the example we're going to be looking at.
We're going to be creating a self-organizing map like this.
In fact we're just going to be running this file.
So, once you download this folder or file,
it's a ZIP file, and unzip it, you'll have
an executable file here.
Now, before you run this just make sure
you're comfortable running an executable file
which you downloaded from the internet,
and check it with antivirus and just make sure that
you're 100 percent comfortable.
I'm comfortable running it on my computer, but bear in mind
that we don't have an affiliation with A-I junkie.
This is a file which we are getting from them, so
we haven't checked this or anything like that.
We don't have control over what is,
what you're downloading from here.
So, there's a file and basically,
what we're, once we run it, we're going to be,
this code is going to be creating a self-organizing map,
which has, as inputs, these eight colors.
So here we got red, orange, dark blue, light blue,
dark green, light green, yellow and magenta.
And so it's going to be looking at these colors
and it's going to be re-running itself again and again
and again and so, each of the rows,
let's clarify that.
So, each of the rows in the data set,
is R-G-B code for each of these colors.
For red it's,
red it's like 255, zero zero.
And then for orange it might be something else.
And so on and so on and so on.
So this has got the codes for those colors,
and these codes are actually normalized so all the values
are put from zero to one, as we have discussed previously.
But the point is we have got eight rows on our dataset and
each one of them has three columns and we are going to put
them into a self organizing map like that.
So lets have a look.
So once you open this file, once you run it, you will see
that there is the number of iterations and then you can
press R to retrain your self-organizing map.
So let's move this away.
And let's have a look,
let's run this again.
R.
As you can see it organizes itself every time differently
that's because your weights initially,
or your starting weights are initialized at random.
And you can see that, you're getting these values,
but you can see at the same time that it is
finding that these, how these color different.
Moreover, it's putting a dark blue next to the light blue
and the light green next to the dark green,
so that's what we mean when we say that,
it does preserve topology or it does find
and preserve similarities in your data set.
So, if it didn't, this blue and this blue
wouldn't be close together.
For example, red, orange, magenta,
end up next to each other as well.
So, once you run this a couple of times,
you can see that,
it's doing pretty well.
So every time it is different,
and now the blue is in the middle,
but again you've got some kind of features
or some kind of similarities and correlation
are being preserved in your representation.
So there you go, that's a very quick example
of a self-organizing map.
A very simple self-organizing map in action.
Once again, check out the website, here at AI junkie,
and you will be able, you're gonna get the codes here,
you can actually get it in Java as well.
And you can get some lovely examples of
how all this works.
Here you have some code on how to create a class
for these self-organizing maps
and just from going through this you'll see that
self-organizing maps are not that hard mathematics,
and the code behind them isn't that hard at all.
So there you go, I hope you enjoyed today's tutorial,
and I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then, enjoy Deep Learning.